Hello check one two two how's it going gang
Hello gang from MacArthur Park near downtown Los Angeles MacArthur Park
we're just melting in the dark and I'll never have a recipe again if no one knows
what I'm talking about go and listen to the Richard Harris version of MacArthur
Park song written by Jimmy Webb it is the fucking weirdest song in the world
and it's about old dudes playing Chinese checkers across the street but I digress
Harmontown is now in session let's bring out Spencer Crittenden everybody
what's good Spencer I don't know man I know I know it's kind of good sometimes
great our mayor mr. Dan Harmon yeah I know I can recognize less applause than
for Spencer I know what it sounds like I'm happy to see him too I also felt like
I got less applause not that I deserve who I don't know I get the last applause I
guess my fault I gave lackluster intro so I'm glad you brought that up I'm glad
to hear you say it because if I ever accused you of doing it I'd be the
biggest dick in the world but I don't want to taper I think you handicap your
intro I don't want to make the audience try again that seems rude yeah I know
that then they're like oh so the shit's on all the way down to us where we were
at now we're at SeaWorld come on I can't hear you this is a dying whale
pretend it's not dying just let leave them alone let them be in the splash
zone of comfort I wasn't trying to hit like to kneecap your I don't know it's
good I actually made the mistake of thinking that if I just really laid it
down subtly that there would be kind of a weird like I've never thought that you
were doing anything to deliberately yeah I I miss you and I love you it's good
to see you it's good to see you and I missed you I missed both of you how's
things what have I missed I don't know I mean we only ever see each other the
three of us up here it's true let's talk about Spencer's beard I got it yeah
oh yeah oh shit I was gonna ask you if you'd lost weight but just your hair
lost weight I lost like 30 pounds did you keep it for like like the Smithsonian
or anything I kept it for wizard spells it looks good you look you look like a
very successful almond brother thanks that's what I was going for he's the
least talented all my brother he's the one that booked all their gigs he's got
all the publishing right oh Tiki almond put up all the flyers where they was
20. Guys, come on, Greg, Tyler, Tyler. I don't even know the Almond Brothers. I don't
know either. I know one's named Greg. Name one more Almond Brothers than Greg and you
want a toaster, but you're the one that played tambourine and booked the gigs. That's good.
That sounds like me. That's a very big compliment when it comes to self care. Oh, because the
other almonds are like who cares? I'd rather die. You know that. That's part of your your
limited knowledge of the Almond Brothers because I'm at zero. I really don't know. I'm projecting
it sounds like they play music. Yeah, they play music. Okay, and their brothers. That's
interesting. I mean, it's not talk about your tomorrow. I'm getting surgered. Yeah, you're
going in for surgery. Yeah, yeah. I was feeling okay about it until the anesthesia cyst called
me and it was like you're going to be in pain, but we're hoping to get you from a sharp
stabbing ripping pain to a dole throbbing pain. I was like Jesus Christ during the surgery
or well it wasn't specific. And so yeah, I don't know. And then I remembered my roommate
was like oh yeah. The last time I got surgery, they said you woke up and we're crying out
in pain, but she didn't remember it and I'm like I don't. I guess it's a little better
to not remember it, but it still seems terrible to go through. What are you getting surgered?
What am I getting surgered? My hip, my left hip, which is great because lately my right
hip has been hurting. So yeah, what is it? Is it bone shearing kind of stuff or what's
going on? I got let's see femoral acid tabular impingement, which means you know the I've
it's a great story. I've told it a lot of times that you know that hip is a ball and
socket joint Jeff and the ball is not shaped right. It's got too much ball going on and
so they're going to get rid of some of the ball and then hopefully it's not going to
pop out. Well pop out is too violent. It kind of it kind of gets strained. You know like
when you have an action figure and you kind of pull his arm too much back and it comes
a little bit out of the joint, but it's not popped out. That happens and when that happens,
it grinds the soft tissues, not unlike a meat grinder slamming your door into a car into
a slamming your hand into a door. What causes identical to what Cody? Yeah, she has it on
the other end, right? The she has the socket rather than the ball, right? Something like
that. Yeah, something's misshapen. So the mortar and the pestle are just grinding cartilage.
Yeah. So she tried. I know it's fucked up, but we're all dying. Yeah. But it's better
that we just fucking deal with it. It actually uplifts us like allegedly like we're melting.
We're dying. You know what you got to get? You got to get that CBD. Yeah.
Tonight's episode is brought to you by Charlotte's Web CBD oils. Just throw a little CBD on
that. We can't tell you why because it's not legal to do so, but do it. What are they
cutting open? They're going to my understanding is they're going to they're going to make
a slight incision on the hip pump the opening full of saline such to separate the muscle
fibers without slicing them apart and then going through the gaps, not unlike a submarine
traversing the barrier reef. Is that something submarines reverse? They'll get in there.
They'll grind down. They'll suck out the bones. They'll take all the shredded suck
out the bones. I'm not. I'm now. I hate the bones. Suck out the bones. I like Henry Jones
because Henry Jones don't eat no meat. Don't suck out the bones. Don't suck out the bones.
Don't suck. That's you taking a Hippocratic oath to not suck out bone. You suck them out
like like like they're actually like going to jack them out. Well, they're going to
get a Dremel in there. They're going to grind away at the bones and then that'll that'll
leave not sawdust, but bone dust. If you're if you're in a Tony Romo's if you're in a
Tony Romo's rib joint, suck out the bones. You're a doctor. Suck on the bone. Suck.
Suck out the marrow. You can suck out the bones. You can suck out the bones. But if
you cook the rib for long enough, you could suck the bones right out. So your socket,
your socket is what my socket's great. My ball is too big. It's oval. It's interesting
to me that there's a distinct that they draw a distinction because my fiance apparently
has the opposite, but it sounds identical, right? Because if the ball and socket aren't
working together, how do you know which is to blame? Well, x-rays. You could just see.
But you could you could fix the problem by changing either, right? They're either working
together or they're not. Yeah, but I mean, it's yeah, you could probably,
but you'd be, you know, there's extra bone somewhere. So you want to take out the extra
bone. You could take out the normal bone to make way for the extra bone, but that's probably
degrading the structural integrity of the bone. I'm sure it is. There's an ideal. Yeah. What
am I doing? I want these people to go to eight years of school. Right. I don't want to know
more than them. Are you going to live in that world?
General anesthesia for this? Yeah, I'm hoping to die. It's weird because they always say
there's like a chance if you go under, you won't come up. But like, if there is that
good of a chance, I don't think they do that. You know, I said, and I asked you, you've
been under before. Yeah, my wisdom teeth. I got a butt thing. How many how many people
here? Let's put it. Let's put a pin in your but thing. Right? That's what they did. Have
been absolutely under for a medical procedure. Okay, that's good that you're all alive.
Huh? The whole whole entire fucking audience. Yeah, it's I think wisdom teeth is a pretty
common one. You generally go on. I don't want to high road you guys. You definitely go under,
but I've had scoppies. I don't know if your tooth procedures count. I think that's what
no, but but I the thing I haven't gone through a couple of scoppies like endo. That's what
I'm getting. And I had like a they put a slit. They did a biopsy thing. They had to get some
shit out of there. So twice now I've been put under. Right. And I've come to realize
that because I remember and I've talked about this on a show before, but the first time
is the anesthesial just came to me and said, do you have any questions? And I said, will
I dream? And she said, nope. Nope. And it was such a fast answer. And I was like, what
the fuck is with the fast answer? Like, like, they know that subjective shouldn't shouldn't
it be like, well, it depends on your religion. Well, I have some answers for that. There's
different kinds of sleep. And when I when I smoked a lot of weed, I stopped dreaming.
And apparently when there's drugs like like the what do you call it? What's the night
the sleeping drug that everyone takes CBD bro? No, not melatonin. It's like the butterfly
Netflix lunesta. Let's say yeah Netflix. It's one of those that's where you have a potato
chip and poop. Oh, no, that's a lester. Oh, okay. It's just become the dad hour. But
there's those drugs that put you to sleep. They help you sleep in whatever. And those
apparently aren't good because they put you do bad sleep and you don't get rest out of
it. You kind of need to go into deep sleep and then go into REM sleep to actually repair
your brain or remove brain plaques or whatever good sleep is doing for you. But when you're
taking drugs that make you not dream and stuff, it doesn't give you that kind of sleep. It's
a different kind of sleep. You're just like unconscious or whatever. And it's not that's
not good. You want to have good sleep. So it's they are inducing that kind of sleep.
They're inducing good sleep. They're inducing bad sleep. So you're not dreaming. And that's
why they have such a firm answer. Okay. Well, okay. Well, so, but the good sleep, bad sleep.
I mean, good sleep is because you're still alive. Bad sleep is you're the equivalent
of dead. Like, like, like that was very comforting to me the second time I did a procedure where
they put me under. And then I came back and I was like, what the fuck? What in the why
am I dressed like this? Oh, they cut you up. And I think and then I'm like driving home.
I'm like, can't wait to get a drink. Can't wait to get back. You're not supposed to drive
yourself home after that, by the way. Yeah, somebody else is supposed to drive. That's
like the rule. I'm like in the Uber and I'm like, take me to the drawing room and the
guys like you're not supposed to drink after I'm like, take me before my fuck before this
fades away. I want to combine it with everything on the top shelf. And part of it is because
it's like there is to me, I do feel like I feared death 10 to 30% more before I had had
these experiences where they go, we're going to do this thing, we got to work on your throat
and we don't want you to sue us. So we're going to put you in a state where you're never
going to sue us. Right. And the state where you're never going to sue anybody is kind
of death. They figured out how to put you in a state that just makes you not exist.
It doesn't make you dream. It doesn't make anything that your fiancee would say to you,
make you go like, yeah, but they don't want that during surgery. So you're being put by
corporate America into a state called death. And then they're bringing you back out of
death. So while that's not necessarily a good power for them to have, it is like, it is
comforting for me when I think about it ago, like, yeah, oh God, what if, what if God doesn't
exist? I'm like, motherfucker, you know what happens if God doesn't exist. It's called,
it's called everything that led up to that surgery minus all the shit that happened after.
That's it. That ain't so bad. Right. That's what I'm afraid of, though. That that to me,
that is so bad. You know what I found? It's so bad in a philosophical sense. Well, you've
done a lot. You've done a lot. I'm just like, it's not, it's not Vietnam. It's like, it's
not like, well, it's like, whatever happens before you go into that state, it's like,
ah, Tommy, I can't feel my legs. No, it's all right. Remember the Bronx pizza? Oh, shit,
put my intestines. Like that's all life. That's life. That's not death. There's nothing to
fear about death. The story of like, of like a famous, like his famous, like a hiker who
wrote this thing. And he would, he would go in these giant, like, like mountain hiking
trips, and he would bring one long novel to read. And every page he read, he would tear
the page off to lighten the weight of what he, you know, like what he's carrying as he
goes along. So he's reading his book. And he's like, why, why have the rest of the pages
behind you that you're not going to read again? Like, you just see, we just tear the pages
and throw them away as he was he hiked along.
Because he's like the last shit I'm ever going to read. I don't give a shit.
Yeah, it's like, I'd rather carry a light book and like, like everything before me is
the first page of the book that I'm reading and everything else has already happened.
And did anyone, I mean, everyone right now is going like, what the, how in the fuck are
you littering at this time? Like, just because you're there and there's like no cops, you're
just like fucking, like I, yeah, I bring a bag of French fries. I do the same thing.
I like throw a fucking McNugget wrapper.
He is papers by her degradable. I just think the one one man's poet is another man's
head. I mean, look, the first thing I thought to is like litterbug. What are you doing?
Like, like, like, do you want to like, what if other people 20 years from now want to
be the guy that's never been here before? And they're like, what is this shit? There's
a hustler pages everywhere. That's a pictorial about a waitress being in a guy's mouth.
Why did he take, eat, love, pray? Bring something fucking heavy.
Skinny legs and all. Tim Robbins just wishes he was Kurt Vonnegut. Tom Robbins, sorry.
You know what scared me? That didn't scare me. It kind of alarmed me after the fact when
I had my vocal surgery. It was, I was under, I was up at like an hour and a half later.
Everything was fine. Everything was groovy. They told me I was in a wheelchair so that
like church could drive me home. I had to be come out in a wheelchair. I was, I stood
up. I was fine. Like, you good to walk? I'm like, yeah, I'm fine. And I didn't realize
that they had drawn and with a sharpie, an X on the side of my neck. I'm like, what is
that about? And they go, Oh, that was just to make sure the doctors know what side to
cut into right because otherwise they're so good at their job that they'll just fuck
right up. We trust them to kill us and bring us back to life, but they don't know what
side to be putting a, they're going to be putting a camera and a laser beam down my
throat and they want to make sure that laser beaming the right side of my neck. But it
was just a good old fashioned X marks the spot on the outsides. They goes, Oh, we're
doing left side today. That's that's like, that's like, that's a little too analog for
my fucking ball. I'll, I'll, I've said it before I'll say it again.
And the socket doctors are serial killers with support systems. That's their privileged
serial killers. I like a Jeffrey Dahmer might have been a head chief of staff, but he grew
up in Milwaukee. God bless him. He was just trying to make AI. Speaking of which podcast
I read it. Yeah. I asked somebody I was I was in Milwaukee like four or five days ago
and I asked somebody like, you guys have the most serial killers. They go, no, that's Washington.
I'm like, they're proud of that. That's like a weird Australia. Like you guys have so many
poison spiders. So like 30% of our spiders aren't poisonous. Like no one's supposed to
know that you're not supposed to have that reaction. All right. Anyways, let's let's
let's get to our guest. We can talk to him about all this and more. I've I've I've it's
a complicated relationship because I'm like, I'm like in this new age of like everyone's
I can touch people. I can, I can hurt them. I can judge them. I can like it's that I can
be a fan. I can like whatever. I don't know. And I'm in the true crime podcast. We we flew
the red handed ladies out from from from London. And we're it was a blessing. And we've had
a good time. And then I'm like, like in the I don't know, I talk about the shit I listened
to on podcasts. And I'm like, Oh, I've been talking about this guy, Asperger detective.
And then I'm like, you heard me go through in this podcast where I'm like, well, I probably
shouldn't call him that. That's got that seems like bullying. Because if you like like the
guy in the meantime, we've become fans and all this stuff like this. Anyways, he's here.
And he's amazing. Please welcome Ryan Krauss from from Cold Case mystery murders.
I didn't even get that right. Cold Case mystery files. Cold Case murder mysteries. Cold Case
mystery. Cold Case murder mysteries. Cold Case. Hello, Ryan. How you doing, man? I definitely
nobody expected you to look like Michael chick list. That's not. And that's the biggest compliment
in the world. I told you last night we had dinner. I'm like, like, Michael chick list
is everyone's catch offer. You shave your head and work out. I would have said he looks
more like that one judge that you really want to impress on a cooking show. Anyway, it's
rude to bring you out. I think your favorite profile is here, but you got to use a little
more salt in this, man. You got to. Anyway, sorry, how are you? How was your trip? Thank
you for driving out here. Oh, I'm great. Yeah. Yeah, you drove here from Phoenix. Yeah.
Yeah, unfortunately. Yeah, you're going to you're going to have to eat that Mike. We
have to tell everyone. Yeah, it's the worst like this. I'm so close. You're going to
be this close. Okay. Otherwise, people will be like, I hated him. In my mouth. I hate
you. No more far away guess. Why was that guy so far away? And we're like, he wasn't
far away. You're a Phoenix native for residents. No, I just moved away from LA actually about
six months ago, unfortunately. But so you fled LA and you've moved to Arizona. Yeah,
I was like, I had a corporate job and the podcast and I could only really keep one. So I had
to let something go and I was in Santa Monica. So I let go of the corporate job. And yeah,
I just had to do my thing. I do love I love those stories like when you get into true
crime podcasts, you're like invested in people that have a certain amount of Patreon subscribers
and then hopefully usually there's like a moment where they're like, guys, if enough
of you help me, I can actually stop delivering pizza or whatever. And you kind of like you
experience this sort of like you get to watch a million Stan Lee's like create a million
Spider-Man's kind of, but it's like it's a healthy in a healthy level. So I and I heard
that episode where you're like, you're telling your origin story of working in cubicles
and stuff. And it was it was pretty, pretty deep and electric. It's really I is more than
I expected. Yeah, I don't even know if I remember that there's an underlying thing to you. We
should talk about this later though, because we should like where you you you kind of God
dinner or I mean great. Thank you, Steve. I just don't understand why it can't happen
earlier. I'll tell you why because I didn't text him yet. Oh, you texted. I had to say
he keeps dropping the ball. He keeps dropping the ball day before your surgery and you're
in charge of ice. Well, I got to be in charge of ice going forward. It's going to be a big
part of my life for a couple weeks. That's just true. Anyways, so let's talk. Let's talk.
Can we talk about your origin story? Like you going from working stiff to true crime
podcaster? Okay. Yeah, let's do that. Which part of we want to talk about? I don't know.
Like give us the rough edges. You don't have to I heard an episode where you talk about
it. There was like a there was like a whole thing. You don't have to talk. Is that the
Columbine episode or was the one before it? I think that was a free episode. Yeah, could
have been but but but just give us the I don't know. Like you see you. Why are you interested
in true crime? Why did you start a true crime podcast? That kind of thing. I got a bad interviewer
just help me out in the true crime thing started way back in the day. I mean, my mom was watching
unsolved mysteries all the time. I don't know if anybody's a fan of unsolved mysteries with
her like constantly. So I was always just in the house and I would hear about true crime
and he's unsolved things and I just started becoming interested in that. And I think for
me it was like, Oh, how did these people's brains work? Why did these people kill being
sociopaths like criminals? Yeah, I mean, it was I wanted to know about everybody's brain
and why is this person a psychopath or a sociopath? Do you think what do you think is isolating
that like what is it fear? Like is it fascination when we want because I think it's linked to
why we watch movies about mafia people, werewolves, like like we we have this fascination. Oh,
these people are sociopaths. Is it is it like I'm scared. Werewolves just get bit.
Is it is it I'm scared I'm like them or is it I'm so scared of them I need to understand
them to like, I think it's both of those things. I mean, I think to a certain extent all of
us have some type of sociopathic tendencies. And we noticed that in our behavior and sometimes
we're ashamed of it. We try to get away from it. But you know, I think there is some darkness
in all of us, whether it ever comes out or not. And for me, that was the fascination
was just, you know, am I like this? Who is like this? Why are they like this? Why are
they more like this than me? Yeah, yeah, why is this person considering themselves like
a candidate for driving their children into a river and jumping out of the car and blaming
it on a random minority? Like why did they just think that was okay to do? Which of them
got away with it? Why did they get away with it? What did they do when they were in police
custody? Like it extends to all of them. Yeah, when you watch the TV shows, like I'm you know,
I watched the forensic files and the data lines and stuff like that. And they the cops
frequently go yeah, you know, they always think they're smarter than us. You know, this
guy thought he knew all the angles. But like, I wonder how many people that are really smart
actually do know all the angles and get away with it. It's like, they kind of are smarter
than you, a lot of them, because you guys do it every day. And we were talking about this
at dinner last night, I like, like, like, I don't know what the percentage is. But I
think the difficult thing for cops who I am, I am my fan of true crime is like making me
a big fan of homicide detectives, because Jesus Christ, if you think working at Kinko's
is hard, like, it's like, like, like, like this, this like idea that they have to work
with these people and they have to get confessions out of them. And then half of the time, if
they successfully get a confession, it's like, you asked why he's not guilty. And they're
like, but I only did what I like. So most of the time they're lying. And but they, they
like, it's like a lot of times like you, you watch like forensic files and the cops will
talk about their techniques and they'll go, they'll, they'll leverage the fact that the
average person given an average person that commits a murder, like that they'll, they'll
be leveraged by the idea that the cop wants to be their friend, for instance.
Oh, yeah, definitely.
That they'll be like, Oh, don't you seem like a smart guy? And the person will respond and
they'll do the saying like, I don't think you want to be dishonest. Like I think you
want to do right by the mother of the victim and stuff. And it's like that that impulse
to like not let the cop down.
Yeah, they're seeking validation. And the cops know that. Yeah, they tend to just feed
right into that. And the cops, whatever they see, that is, whatever they see is lacking
within that person, whatever the desperation is that cause them to commit the crimes. That's
generally what they go after.
That's just what an abuser does is notice, notice what the person what pushes the person's
right. It tries to feed into that to manipulate them.
But you're kind of an abuser abuser when you're right, when you when you suspect that a person
is yeah, and it's like that's the thing is like, I don't know what I haven't heard cops
talk a lot about on these true crime shows. The ones that I love because they have cops
involved like they don't. It's like there aren't any rules when you're dealing with sociopaths.
I like your show because you talk a lot about your you talk about sociopaths in what seems
to me to be the right way. Because it's like, I don't want to praise them. I don't think
they're better than us. At the same time, I don't think I don't think we should pretend
that they're like they don't exist. But like, I like that you're kind of like you're always
like, this guy's a fucking idiot. That's the thing is he thinks he can just he's such
a sociopath. He's going to call 911 and just make up a murder story. And here's the thing,
you can't do that. That's really hard for people that make them up for a living to do
as much anything on television. It doesn't work. Like the people that are great at that
the people that are great at making the perfect fake 911 call or whatever, they end up being
so proud of themselves that they can't wait to tell everybody that they hang out with.
Man, I fucking told I called 911. It is true. They're so proud of themselves about it.
What is it? Can you tell me the difference between a sociopath and a psychopath?
You know, I've actually made up my own rules about that because I love to hear it. Yeah.
As far as a sociopath goes, well, psychopath, first of all, psychopath, we think of as a
puppet master. So they're generally people who use their resources as a puppet master
over something or somebody else in that manner. So we think of like there were the case of
Michelle Carter and I don't know if anybody's familiar with that. She was the one who had
the boyfriend who committed suicide or her urging. She sent him hundreds of texts saying
kill yourself now, do it now, do it now because she had that emotional power over him. John
Wayne Gacy, somebody like that, another classic psychopath. He's a guy who was offering jobs
that paid much more than anybody else would pay for labor. So he was able to get young
men to do things they wouldn't normally do. And they took a lot of risks and they would
stick around his home because if they didn't, they couldn't make that money. And so he
was more of a puppet master like that. But with the sociopath, I generally think of them
more as leeches. And so what they're doing is they're manipulating you for your resources
rather than using theirs to control you. They're generally lazier. Oh, absolutely. Yeah, they're
considered fringe characters. Sociopaths settle. Sometimes they take the spotlight because
of where they landed. Who would have expected a sociopath to become CEO of this company?
And then it's like, whoa, this sociopath is the star of this show, but it's only really
because of the situation they landed in. Combined with the fact that a sociopath is like a jellyfish.
They're like, I'll do whatever I can to survive. I have no fucking empathy. And a psychopath
has a little bit of an itch. It's like, I'm playing Grand Theft Auto and it's pretty boring.
Like, what do I got to do to make this interesting? They want, they have a little bit of the-
Are there psychopaths that actually just like gamblers will take terrible risks to make
stupid bets because they get a kick out of the action? They call it, right? Are there
psychopathic murderers and criminals? I'm sure there are. That do it simply for that
kind of adrenaline thing? Or is it the simple idea that they feel that they're allowed to
because they have that status? Yeah, I mean, the psychopath is generally
just known for having no regard for anybody else. And so that's why they're sometimes
good corporate CEOs and things of that nature. I read that they're more comfortable drifting
that a psychopath is like a coconut. They contain everything they need. Like, a psychopath
could go years just wandering around. And a sociopath actually gets anxious about like,
I don't know, I feel like I don't even have a family. Like, even though they don't actually
empathize with, but they feel anxiety about uprooting and wandering. And a psychopath
is like, actually, the open roads, the only place to be. That's one thing that I read.
Are there other classifications beyond psychopath and sociopath for the people that you like
profile on your show? Yeah, I mean, there are plenty of subcategories
and things of that nature. But I mean, those are generally the two major classifications.
What kind of, if you murder someone for any reason other than food, or them trying to
make you food. You might be a redneck. I mean, if you murder
someone, are you automatically a sociopath? Can you be like retro diagnosed as a sociopath?
No, not necessarily. I mean, you could just be somebody who flipped out at any moment
and killed someone. It could be an anger issue. For sociopaths, generally what I believe they've
been created to do, I believe that their brains have been created specifically to not allow
them to make adjustments in their narrative as far as what they do on a daily basis.
So a lot of detectives will tell you that when you're dealing with a sociopath, generally
what happens is they have a very rigid logic. And so they follow that logic and they don't
veer from it at all. The detectives.
Well, no, the sociopath. That's, I knew that.
By not veering from the logic, they will continue to make mistakes again and again and again
up until.
Because they've written a story in their mind that can't be like deviated from.
Yeah. And there's a lot of denial involved. And the reason the denial is involved is because,
like you're saying, they can't deviate from the original plan. And so they will just follow
through even if the logic doesn't make sense. And the idea is the brain has been developed
like that specifically to put them in prison. But in the process, we're creating a lot of
technology related to detecting light.
Right. They've been placed by God as like debugging equipment.
Oh, absolutely. Yeah.
That their job is to go through the highway map and constantly try to turn right.
Yes.
And if they're able to, it either represents a place where you need an on-ramp as in Lizzie
Borden, possibly.
Yeah, right.
Like you did a Lizzie Borden episode where your take on it was very, you're like, I mean,
I don't mean to put words in your mouth, but my brutish summation of your take on Lizzie
Borden was basically like, this is a woman who if she was being denied the things that
she felt she deserved in like 40 years difference, like there wouldn't be as much question about
what she was entitled to. This was a woman who was being told at her place in time that
there's no, you're in a cell socially, like, oh, you're a spinster. You either need to
marry a man and submit to his will, or you need to do what your father says. And she
was like, psych, I have a hack for that. No pun intended.
I have 30.
Which is short for hatchet.
Yes, exactly.
And I mean, did I paraphrase you wrong?
No, that's great.
I mean, that's a great example of that as well.
Not that these people are gods or monsters or heroes or villains, but that sometimes
their functionality is a scrubbing bubble, that they're like going like, hey, there's
a fucking, like there's railings here that like a woman isn't allowed to do anything
except chop a mother fucker.
And we do, we do that. We do that with, that's why our history is like such a roller coaster
of like criminals that become like exonerated things, like sometimes the sociopaths are
like, it's like, oh, they're not a role model. However, if it weren't for them, blibbity
blue blue.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, there's a, there's a thing that makes a sociopath special is that
like, for instance,
Is it?
He's writing it down.
How do you spell blibbity blue?
B-L-I-V-E-E-E.
It's two-piece, two-piece.
Yeah.
Sorry, I go ahead.
I'm sorry. And I'm sorry I'm a bad interviewer and I'm sorry for everything.
But Lizzie Borden.
I don't even remember what I was going to say.
She was a, she was like, what, 19, something like early in the past and she was in a big
house and she killed her dad to get the house and she got away with it more or less is the
theory.
Yeah, she killed her mom too.
Because, right, because, because like, she just was like, ah, I was painting and I got
these clothes red with paint and now I threw them out and it's not suspicious back then.
And so like, she was just exploiting the legal system or the system.
Yeah, she just totally exploited the legal system. It's something that happens on a daily
basis now. And because of incidents like that, and we were able to create better forensics,
we now under have a better understanding of that.
So that's really the purpose of the sociopath is to advance that technology over and over
and over.
So their faulty logic ensures when they want something and they can't get it, they'll engage
criminality because there's just no other way to get it.
So if you're Lizzie Borden, you're stuck in this house, you don't get your father's money.
He's healthy and he's not going to die for a long time.
You basically just do whatever you have to do to make sure he's dead without even worrying
about the logic.
And that's generally how the sociopath works.
So you have this thing that you do that other podcasters don't do where you have a lot of
those.
You have, you do it fully nude.
Yes.
I actually requested to do this show nude and dad was like, I don't know, I don't know.
But you do, you kind of pick, I'm kind of curious about your process, but you can tell me, no,
that jumps the shark.
I can't tell you exactly how I do it, but I'm curious about how you, like you pick a case
because part of your gimmick is you pretty much always go lateral.
I mean, you, you, you, the, for me as a consumer, the joy of true crime is that it's like, these
are all different personalities, but the canon is all the same because it's true crime.
Everyone's going to do JonBenét Ramsey.
And I want them to, I, and it, because I want the same way that Shakespeare was just adapting
whatever.
Harmon, shut up and just get to your point.
My point is that like your, your unique gimmick is that you, you actually do kind of investigate
these things.
You pick cases that have questionable resolutions and you, you very proudly put a crown on your
head and go like, look, here's the thing, I don't need any more information than I have.
I don't know, a lot of people talk about, they wish this autopsy photo came back, but
guess what?
You don't fucking need it.
All you need, all you need to solve this case is to think about one thing, evolution.
And you, and it's, it's either the, like Cody at my fiance and I were like, oh, it's
go like, we go, he goes, you always like, you go, like, it's going to be one thing.
It's either going to be evolution resources or redirection of light and, and I'm not mocking
you because it is, you go, you commit to that like a crazy kind of Colombo like, like, like
detective, like you're good at it.
You do it well.
What is redirection of light?
Oh, yes.
Please explain this.
It is.
This is great.
Well, we got, we got some, some light redirection things.
Some ROL fans out there.
This is, this is, this is one of your big things.
And for those who aren't indoctrinated, it's like, like, I mean, you're constantly talking
about redirection of light.
Yeah.
I mean, redirection of light can, that, it's actually, I mean, it's just essentially just
blocking the truth in some way.
It can be thought of in many ways, but I think one of the ways that I explained it recently,
I covered the Justin Ross Harris case, if everybody's familiar with that.
He was a hot car death with his young son.
And he's in prison for it now.
Is that the guy that left his kid in the car and then went to, yeah, he, he, he just,
he left his kid in the car when he went to work instead of taking the kid to daycare.
And it was in Atlanta in June.
And he claimed that he, his case was, I didn't know, I'm hearing in periods.
I forgot my kid was in the car.
I, I, I took him to work.
I went to work and then we went to lunch and then my kid got cooked in a car.
Yeah.
And he claimed, he had claimed that for seven hours, he didn't think of his son.
And you could see by the way that he had parked his vehicle and the movements that he made
coming in and out of the building, that he was intentionally avoiding certain things and
was positioning his vehicle in certain ways.
And the one of the, like I said, the sociopath is unable to see when, once he reaches the
stage of denial, he's unable to see that he's not making adaptations to his plan.
And so one of the instances of redirected light that I talked about was that he pulls
the vehicle into the parking space by backing in because he wants to be able to get out
and not have to look into the back of the vehicle.
So if he pulls in forward, he has to get out and walk past the door where his son is in
the car seat and he would see him.
So he intentionally backs in, but by backing in what happens is he creates a situation
where he would have seen the kid in the backseat through the side mirror.
I'm sorry.
I don't quite follow that.
I didn't normally, he would have to, are you saying he has to look over the backseat
to back out of the space and he would see the kid in the backseat?
Let's say the, where is the kid sitting, front or backseat?
The kid's in a car seat in the back.
So let's say he would normally pull in face first.
And so every other vehicle in the parking lot is like that, except for his, his is backed
in.
Because he doesn't want to walk past the backseat.
He wants to walk forward.
If he were to pull in forward, he has to get out and walk past the backseat and he'll
see the car seat.
So he avoids doing that.
But what he can't see as a sociopath is that he's actually redirecting that light.
And so what that means is that by parking the vehicle and backing it in, what he's doing
is he's creating a situation where he has to use the rear view and also the side mirror
in order to back into the spot.
And while doing that, he would very clearly see his son.
He would have used more, more light to see the reflection of his son in the backseat
of the car.
So in fact, hours later, that's how he actually says he sees his son.
He says, I was changing a lane.
I looked in the mirror and I saw him in the back.
But he would have seen that when he parked the vehicle.
He was not able to understand that though.
You've got, sometimes you have flare ups like, like that, I remember you saying about that
guy.
You're like, but this guy, and he says this, but here's the thing.
I'm about to squash his fucking life like a grape.
Like you, you, you have, you have little, not his life, but you probably said like his logic
or something.
And you, I love that about you that you're like, you, you have nerd hulk outs, like you're,
and then also you're like, you know, and I know, I know, I know half of you think I'm
full of fucking shit, but here's the thing.
You're fucking wrong.
So do you take, and now I can't wait to listen to the show, I'm sorry that I'm late to the
game on this, but like, do you take evidence that was already there and go, I picked that
evidence for, for me to go, that's the thing, or do you put it all together and go, I'm
going to make my own extrapolation out of that and, and say, here's what I think that
no detective had already landed on.
Yeah.
I mean, I generally try to extract whatever the human brain is doing.
So if I look into the psychology, then I'll start analyzing the philosophy of it and the
sociology as well and just go, just go off on a rant.
Right.
So the car thing is like, he's creating plausible deniability almost, but creating plausible
deniability is someone, something a guilty person does so that they can then claim they're
getting away with it.
So that gets back to the redirection of light.
He's creating this incident where he could pretend to be telling the truth, but he's
actually engineering a dishonest situation and that has evidence that looks like a dishonest
situation being created.
It takes energy to like, it almost think like it's like when you were talking about, oh,
he would have looked in his room every mirror and all that stuff.
Actually, that pales in comparison to the fact that like, if he pulled in head first
to his parking spot every day and then that day backed in, boom, you're done.
Redirection of light, right?
Because he's doing something specific that day and he's doing it because what's on his
mind is, I don't want anyone to perceive me as having seen my baby.
I think people that back in for no reason are fucking weird just to start with.
Oh, I do that, I do that because at the end of the day, I wanted to go home.
At the beginning of the day, I have more energy.
I'm like, I want to start the day, you've got so much energy, oh, man, I can't wait
to do a fucking complicated maneuver forward to my grumpy self at the end of the day.
It's like me saying grumpy Dan, get out of here.
It's five o'clock.
Get out of here.
Beat traffic.
Thank you.
Ryan, does that make him psychopath or sociopath?
I'm going to go with sociopath.
Yeah, definitely.
Because I'm lazy.
I think that is sociopathic.
Yeah.
No, no, I love your Instagram workouts.
Opportunistic.
I'm like, this is a way to, I want to talk about your, like, but you're the, well, I
do want to say this redirection of light thing or like the thing that you do that's so specific,
I want to, I want to insert there because I have said on this podcast, even to other
true crime people, I'm like, you know, the true crime story that really bums me out,
that really freaks me out, keeps me up at night, was this Kaniqa Powell, is it Kamiqa
or Kaniqa?
It was the young lady who, the guy came to her door, he pretended he was a UPS guy and
all this stuff.
There was like two guys and all this stuff.
She was like, like, and then she ends up getting shot and there's no robbery, all this stuff.
It was just so disturbing to me because it felt, it was, it just filled me with anxiety
and like, why isn't there a task force, what is going on?
And he did an episode on it and it was like, as an example of what you, how what you do
can kind of actually be beneficial.
You have the same information that anyone else has, but you're tracing it through and
going, what do the guy or guys that are doing this shit to her have in common?
They're idiots.
I mean, they're bad at their job, like they're dumb, they're children.
They're trying to get into her apartment and they're doing a terrible job at it.
They're failing every step of the way.
And then following that track, that explains her death in the end because what happens
to this poor young lady is she comes back, she's in her lobby of her own hotel place
and then all we know is that some guy shoots her and runs away, but the way that you break
it down is like, yeah, no, the same idiot children that were so desperate to have her
in her apartment, they were, that desperation planted them like children, idiot children
where she lived, waited for her to come back, did what idiot children would do.
She reacted the way an adult would.
They reacted the way a child would because she wasn't going to go in a fucking apartment
with a fucking child with a gun that's been trying to get, she's like, no fuck you, I'm
a military trained adult and this person shot her and ran like a child.
And that is why it's like, oh, there was no, her wallet wasn't taken and all this stuff,
which is the stuff that panicked me because I was like, this is a professional hit, how
are we ignoring this, we need, the government killed her.
And instead you're like, no, this is all explained and the guy that did it was active in that
area and then stopped being active, he's in prison right now, he did this kind of thing,
he probably did that, he wouldn't confess to it because that would add to his time and
it's all good.
It's like you, your unique way of looking at things like actually had like, it was like
you solved the case for me, you made me sleep at night.
Do you think Ryan that, not having listened to the show, and I will, I promise, that what
you're good at, what makes your show good, do you think that you might be valuable as
a resource to law enforcement?
I think he should be an actual detective, use answer it.
You know, I've actually never really given any thought to that, I have had people approach
me and say, hey, did you ever think that you could contribute to law enforcement, I'm not
so sure that a lot of what I do is very grounded, but I think it is.
I mean, I wouldn't say you would be a great, you wouldn't hold up in a courtroom necessarily,
but then again, like profilers and people that like, you might be the person that they
go to and just go like, like Ryan, what do you think about this guy?
He sounds like, you know, he sounds like a classic number 17.
Yeah, I definitely think I would be beneficial in that way for sure.
Yeah, that'd be great.
Do you think that, because you would consider yourself like the equivalent of like a psychic
in the sense that if it works, it works, well, sometimes, yeah, well, there's like, there's
crime shows about a guy who's like his eyebrows twitching, you know what that means is thinking
about his mom.
And it's like, that's not going to hold up in court, but in the TV show, it works fucking
great because that makes the guy confessed and then that does work.
Well, if it helps you knock on the right door, and then that guy tries to crawl the window,
you got it.
Yeah.
It's like, oh, how'd you, how'd you knock on my door?
A profiler told us, what the fuck's a profiler?
Yeah, that shit doesn't hold up in court, but like, and sometimes that's a psychic.
Like you hear law enforcement sometimes say, they have this like weird relationship with
psychics that call in because they're kind of going, and I heard you say this on your
podcast where what I'm hearing you say is something that agent Dale Cooper on Twin Peaks
would say, which is if, if the make you sound more legitimate, by the way, if the linear
path isn't working, figure out any other way to look at this.
And so sometimes you'll go, so I'm looking at this whole thing from the perspective of
John Hughes movies, and it's like, well, wait, that's not, but then you're like, now looking
at that from that perspective, you discover different details, or you notice different
connections, and then you draw different conclusions, which more often than not solve the crime.
It's a good podcast.
Like, speaking of movies, like, it's like an old, like, like an old Western, like you'd
be a great like country judge, like, I know the law says this and the law says that, but
no, you're, he's a Pinkerton.
He's a Pinkerton.
This guy's clearly from, I don't know if you've ever seen 16 candles, but, but like, do you
like, just talk about that for a second, because you've addressed that a couple of times in
your podcast, like, it's sort of like, it's you, you're a hero to me because you kind
of like, everyone's around like, wait, this guy believes in voodoo.
And then you're, and then the other sentence, you're like, oh no, you're like such a, you're
such a, like, logician, and you're bridging some gap there, where you believe that it's
all about perspective or something.
Yeah, I mean, I think there's part of my show that I guess I should probably clarify.
I've always been very polarizing.
And obviously, you know that a lot, I mean, a lot of people hate my show.
So it's always been, oh, it's always been about logic and about trolling people as well.
Because I have a lot of hate listeners.
And so do you actively troll people?
I think my show is an active troll.
I think a five hour episode is pretty much, you know, no, no, I mean, you're not like,
oh, I know, I'm only doing this because my haters are going to hate it.
No, no, absolutely not.
No, I mean, just the general nature of the show and how I put it together.
What is the average?
The things that, wait, when I find trolling the people who hate the show, that's usually
to the benefit of the people who like it.
Yeah.
What is your average troll beefing about with your show that it's too not logic based
or?
Oh, it's like, it's anything from the production to the audacity of my conclusions to my voice
to the way I present things to the cadence.
But that's great because you're doing basically more of, you're doing an opinion piece.
You're lending your own subjective ideas on the things.
And the people that edit opinion editorial pages and newspapers, they love the hate mail.
That means people are reading and that means that we're creating a conversation.
So that's good.
Yeah.
I mean, that's definitely part of what I do.
You know, a lot of true crime shows you listen to, regardless of whether they're good or
bad, you know, there's kind of a thing where people are not quite committing to certain
conclusion in a case for whatever reason.
I mean, it might not be what the show is about, but I tend to just be audacious and go for
it and just say what I think.
I think it's an interesting intersection between true crime and podcasting is that the part
of you that wants to podcast is the part of you that wants somebody out there to like
you.
Otherwise, why podcast it?
But the part of you that likes true crime is the part of you that wants to acknowledge
that life is disgusting and toxic and predatory.
And so it's tough.
I've talked to the red handed gals about this, how it's like, I like them because they're,
they don't, they don't constantly pause and I understand the constant pauses with true
crime podcasters where they're like, by the way, this is about the victim and not about
the, oh, no one wants to hear about what Jack the Ripper did.
He's not a hero or anything.
But anyways, this episode is called Jack the Ripper.
And it's really about the victims and it's like, I like that you're, I mean, we need
people that are, you clearly hear the haters and then you're like, all right, that's expected,
but here's the thing.
I'm a genius.
Of course you'd hate that.
I'm going to blow your fucking mind.
Is it ever a guest or is it just you just straight to Mike?
It's just me.
It'd be funny to hear a guest.
Can I be for the first guest because I would be like, oh, shit, the air conditioner went
on again.
I sit there with Cody.
I'm like, oh, God damn it.
The air conditioner went on.
Who wants to see Dan on the show?
I mean, it's his audience.
Don't let me ruin your show, though, like I don't set the sociopath, you're like an
ooze trying to get in and destroy his show.
I don't want to ruin things.
I debated on the show because I really, that's how much affection I have for your show and
there for you is like, we talked about that.
I was like, I don't want to keep doing this thing.
I don't want to keep jabbing my ruler into primordial ooze.
I love true crime podcasting because it's punk rock.
I think it's fucked up that I'm kind of getting tired of like laying in bed with Cody and
then the neck and it's like, oh, in other news, I guess I'm going on Harmontown and
I'm kind of like, am I fucking up?
Am I fucking up?
Or am I signal boosting?
I want a signal boost.
I don't want to fuck up.
You're not here for me.
Let's talk about you.
Can I ask a question?
I'm fascinated about, we talked briefly that you left corporate, can we ask what the corporate
gig was?
What were you doing before?
You founded Tesla.
Whoa.
No, I was an executive assistant to the CIO of my company.
That's all I was doing.
I needed a corporate job that had a decent paycheck.
What kind of job, was it like tech or something like that?
Oh, yeah.
It was an IT department for a commercial real estate company.
And then you started podcasting about true crime.
Was it your first podcast or was it your first foray into it?
Yeah.
I mean, I'd just been writing for a long time and it wasn't really paying off as well as
I'd liked.
I just figured I just needed a way to distribute my work so that I could get it in front of
a lot of people.
And podcasting was just the natural way to go.
I mean, there are other factors involved.
And it went so well that you could say goodbye to your Santa Monica West Side corporate
job that paid probably pretty well.
And then you can just go, fuck it, I'm leaving to Arizona and I'm just going to make people
on the internet mad about murders.
Yeah, pretty much.
That's the way it went.
Yeah.
I mean, they just followed your own weird joy on that one and just said, this is what
I want to do.
Oh, totally.
Yeah.
I mean, I just worked nonstop.
And it was like, I got to a point where I was exhausted and I was like, that has to
be one thing or the other.
And I wanted it to be the creative side.
That's so cool.
That's just inspirationally awesome.
Yeah.
I mean, that's off to that.
And everyone listening to that, just do the thing that you're obsessed about.
That's the bright side of a shitty dehumanizing internet is that it should be providing.
Yeah.
That's what I love about it.
As I said to What's His Fuck, I'm going to ask the episode, What's His Fuck, Doctor
What's His Fuck.
Oh, the What's His Guy, overheard LA.
I'm like, I love the internet.
For all of its stories about how it destroys people with its fucking acidic dehumanization,
it's also like, yeah, but before it existed, you couldn't just go, tell me one more time
to reload this paper tray, you piece of shit.
I'm going to go home, grab a Yeti mic from Best Buy.
That's what Mike I have too.
Hell yeah.
I can't figure out how to make those things work.
They're a lot better than these ones.
They're not better, but they have a, you could talk a lot farther away.
You can just like, and it's not about like, oh, you're either Mozart or you don't know
how to play piano.
I like the depth of that hierarchy and the birth of that circular system where it's like,
really, you don't know who, maybe the reason I was born is because I'm neither, I'm just
me.
I love that.
That people go like, yes, she's just her, and then we praise these stories and go, she
was just her.
No, she's a billionaire, and then we ruin that person.
But I like that idea of that ever-widening marketplace where it's like, you can just
be you, and then we, you know, well, YouTube, we all need someone while we're just being
us to, I don't know, drill the oil and stuff, but we'll go out to other countries for that.
When podcasting first came around, like I was, you know, I'm the old buddy that is like,
what's a blog?
It was a combination of two words, it's stupid, and what's a podcast, it's dumb, and of course
I've been doing a podcast for a thousand years, but like, there is kind of a little
art movement to it where people just like, there's little pockets of humanity, it could
be anywhere in the world, it doesn't have to be in New York or, you know, Hollywood,
and just sit down and just talk about stuff, and people fall in love with it, and that's
closer to like, 60s and 70s punk rock in New York, like people just going, I'm not a great
guitar player, I just know I want to go into these shitty little clubs and just scream into
a microphone.
Now, I don't want to be this guy.
But if you did, it would go a little something, like this.
Said the guy who didn't want to be that guy, never.
On steroids.
But we should, I really want to, here's what I want to do.
I want to send Ryan out of the room, stage a murder.
Okay.
Why stage it?
Well, not stage a murder, but like, have a truth that we know and that you don't know
have you come back, and just like, I don't know, kind of have you examine it.
Right.
It's not to test you, it's just to like, okay, how about this, how about this, I'll take
Ryan into the green room, we'll cover our ears, and then have like, leave here, somebody
come get us, but I'll be like your, oh, you want me in on the job?
Yeah, have someone else cover his ears, we have people for that.
We did build that sound group.
In my mind, I would be like the shitty local detective who brought in the fancy podcast
profiler.
Okay, you're okay.
All right.
I'm using just my regular cop training, but he's got the superpower.
All right, but then what are Spencer and I left doing, like one of us murders the other,
and I just want to figure out like,
Well, what we can, that's the hardest part is fine, like, how are we going to come up
with a crime?
All we need to do is decide on something conversationally.
Decide on what?
Well, like, we decide like, what happened, and then we decide who did it.
That's all very difficult.
It is hard.
It's hard.
Yeah, okay, we could do it though.
But we can do it, but then once we know the truth, then definitively we'll be lying.
Well, how about, is anybody in our audience, has anyone actually committed a murder that
has not been told yet?
I want to do it.
Yeah, please tell me.
Who is it?
Wait, wait, we can figure this out.
We can figure this out.
Yeah.
Do you want it?
Yeah, using someone from the audience is a good idea.
I like that start, but like, we can't murder people.
Well, let's not rule that out just yet.
I don't want them to murder you.
We need all options on the table.
But like, ah, fuck.
You can't murder the audience.
I don't know.
You don't have any suggestions.
We don't know that.
Like, how does redirection of late work backwards where you could be like, you know, what would
make you?
What about this?
Does anybody, because when you watch these, you know, these murder shows and or listen
to the true crime podcast kind of things, do you ever kind of fantasize like, I think
I have the perfect crime, or if I wanted to like do somebody, this is how I think I would
get away with it.
If anybody, does anybody have one now, because like, because I've got like five.
Yeah, but that's, if you have a good one, you never want to share it out loud, especially
on a recording.
That's like rule number one of my plan.
Yeah, but this would be a great way, this would be a great way to expiate that and go
like, I could never do that now, because I've said it on one of the world's most famous
podcasts.
And actually what we could do is an improvement on our 911 call thing, but the thing that
we did wrong last time is the ladies were in the room and then we, if we send you guys
out of the room and then Spencer and I, we decide on a scenario and then we, we bring
you guys back in and we make our 911 calls based on what we know is the truth.
Yeah.
I like that.
I think I'm close there.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's good.
No, no.
Yes.
I got to go back and do a little, honestly, I think you can stay for this version.
Okay.
He doesn't need his ears.
I was just saying that like, like I'm the shitty cop, I'm the local, you know, knucklehead
detective from Colorado Springs.
I think we can give him a choice of three 911 calls.
If he covers his ears, leaves the room and then comes back in and we've decided on what
really happened because then we'll have a truth in our head and then we make a 911 call.
We're all making 911 calls?
Yeah.
Oh right.
We're all covering up the same crime.
Yep.
I got you.
That's what we did wrong last time.
I have no idea.
Because we were making up crime.
That's for the best.
You know, Steve Levy is a wonderful conversationalist.
He'll take you in the alley.
He'll chat you up.
It'll be grand.
Steve Levy.
Can you come out here please?
Levy to the stage.
Oh, what are you saying?
I'm getting set up to get murdered.
What's that?
Am I getting set up to get murdered here?
Yeah.
It'd be the perfect crime because we'd be like, I don't know what happened to him.
We were talking about murder and then he never came back.
By the way, back alley code seven.
What if this is the perfect crime?
We wouldn't be recording it.
No, we would be because we'd be recording it and it sounds so guileless.
Even what I'm doing right now, which is getting like meta and like laying layers onto it.
I don't know.
This is a couple of guiles to me.
This is where we find out, by the way, that Steve during the show has been murdered.
Well, no, this is when he lives his real life.
He goes to Newark and like does coke and shit.
Or he fights crime where he's out there murdering people.
Yeah.
He's like Nightwing.
He's never...
Oh, that's what he does.
He comes out to bring the vodka that nobody asked to create an alibi.
It's an alibi.
Yeah.
Meanwhile.
And then he goes and fucking does a show with Bet Midler.
Yes.
He's the MacArthur Park handjobber.
Are you comfortable with this?
The least sought after criminal.
Like no one wants him caught.
Or her.
We don't know.
Let's see.
I mean, here's the problem.
People say Victor was crying, but it's just too vigorous.
It's kind of like a blow.
It's like fucking at least, you know...
The MacArthur Park handjobber.
Criminal or Samaritan.
Or yeah.
Tonight at 11.
Like they...
And I said, like you just have like college kids going like, a guy came out or a lady,
I don't know.
You know, like a satin glove on, they said, do you want a handjob?
I said, no, they left.
I was in MacArthur Park.
I like the ducks.
Okay.
So I just have...
People are asking, are they a criminal?
And then someone else is like, I said, yes, best handjob of my life.
Like no one can figure out, should we catch this person?
Or should we all be them?
I just...
So I think, well, are we all covering up the crime or is one of us covering up the crime
and the other two are being honest?
I think somebody should go, oh, like my loved one was attacked.
Well, we'll all say that.
Yeah, that could be the murder.
I think what we need to do is, and don't leave yet, so let's figure this out.
So the idea is we would send Ryan out and then we would decide while he's out on a...
On the specifics of a crime, I guess.
Right.
This is where it all falls apart.
No, no, that part I guess.
It's already falling apart.
Well, that's to be sure.
And then he would come in and we would basically do our 911 calls.
Right.
I don't know.
But are we all guilty?
Because then he'd just say, yeah, you're all guilty.
Or is one of us guilty?
I'd say...
Oh, no, no.
Only one of us is guilty.
Right, okay.
If one or two people are guilty.
It could be only one person.
It could be two people.
It has to be one person.
And then we see if he can pick the guilty person.
You should pick an actual victim here and just have somebody leave the room.
Right.
I'll try to figure out who it is.
The audience member has to leave.
They can't see the rest of the show.
Okay.
Just for a minute.
How about this?
The four of us stay here and the whole audience leaves.
You give me an hour.
We could do just that.
Can we try?
I feel like the audience would be frustrated if we don't just try it.
Yeah.
Okay.
Ryan, get out of here.
We're going to try it.
Thanks so much.
Steve Levy doesn't exist.
Go backstage and plug your ears and we'll call you unplug your ears.
Honor system Ryan.
Plug your ears and say la la la.
And even if this doesn't work, it's just another...
Steve, turn down the monitor.
All right.
The one in the back.
Not these ones.
These are good.
He doesn't exist or he would have come up here by now.
I'm going to go check in the back of the show.
Steve loves smoking.
All right.
So how this would work is we would decide on a crime that happened, right?
There's a dead baby.
A dead baby.
In a bucket.
Okay.
Can it be a four-year-old?
Sorry.
It has to be a four-year-old.
Okay.
Great.
So it's a dead four-year-old in a bucket.
Uh-huh.
By a river.
Right.
And either we found it or we killed it.
Is it working, Jeff?
To talk a little longer.
Okay.
All right.
Let's just...
We could...
What?
That's fair.
You know.
We're going to...
It's going to have to be a...
Just don't eat the mic.
Okay.
All right.
So we were talking about it's a dead baby.
Huh?
Either we found it or we...
Right.
Or we're the reason it's there.
Now it's too quiet.
I couldn't hear what you said.
When you kill a person...
Right.
Usually, like, you either found it.
It's kind of whoever smelled it dealt it.
Like, you're either the person that finds the body.
All right.
So who's going to be guilty?
Okay.
Don't say it on the mic.
Just let's raise hands.
Okay.
Well, we need to pick...
Someone from the audience come up and pick.
Okay.
You want to come up and pick whoever's going to be the murderer.
Right.
Come on up.
Okay.
So that's a...
It's not an audible process.
All right.
And if you have anything to plug, we'll also...
A SoundCloud or anything?
Okay.
You deserve...
You deserve something.
Okay.
So you're going to pick the person that's the murderer.
And we're not going to acknowledge it audibly.
Right.
So it's...
They're in the bucket.
And it's okay that the audience knows.
We just want to make sure that our...
Asperger detective doesn't know.
Okay.
So the...
Yeah.
So murder has been chosen.
Our show feels so classy now.
Thank you.
But he was like, wait, wait.
Don't tell me.
Like this...
It's really like...
All right.
A polite applause.
One of us, someone in this room, is a murderer.
We have to do more games.
What's the crime?
The crime is there's a baby in a bucket.
All right.
It's four years old.
It's been killed and placed in a bucket.
Fuck.
This isn't going to work.
No, it'll work.
It'll work.
What?
Well, we're going to be interrogated.
Well, no.
Well, my theory is we're calling 911, right?
Like we're each calling 911?
Sure.
Or is that not...
No, that works.
Why would three people all call 911?
We each found a baby in a bucket.
Because we're trying to get away with it.
Two of us are the people that found the baby in the bucket.
Right.
We're just going to kill the baby in the bucket.
Okay.
Why would that person call 911?
To smoke screen.
Okay.
Right.
Because otherwise they'd just leave the baby to be found.
Okay, let's just keep it simple.
Let's just try it very simple.
So a couple more facts.
Do we just want a couple more facts?
Okay, it does work.
All right.
Is the baby in a bucket?
One of us did it.
And we're all going to call up for various reasons and say, oh Jesus Christ, baby in a bucket.
Yeah.
I mean, I already know this isn't going to work.
No, it'll work enough.
No, but here's the thing.
The way that he's going to be helpful in this, and we're going to show off Ryan's skill set,
is that-
He's going to ask us details.
Yeah.
But we're all going to be making them up.
And that's why it doesn't work.
That's why it doesn't work.
Well, no.
I mean, I think it'll be good.
Right.
They're just, we need, let's just say like two kind of facts that are clues that we could kind of all-
I think we need to agree on a redirection of light point.
That's the thing is we want him to detect where the redirection of light happened.
Right.
Like we actually need to actually, like we need to know that you guys, I don't know.
No, just a couple.
Okay.
So he's in a bucket.
It was by the river.
He was playing, right?
Those are things we've learned.
Okay.
So just establish two more facts.
The baby was wealthy.
Right.
Okay.
Great.
He was an heir to the kingdom of Brunna.
Okay.
I think I understand this.
And I hope he's not listening.
I hope he's not listening, but I, because I need to explain this like loudly and-
Gotcha.
Like basically we're all the same person.
Right.
But that makes sense.
Yeah.
And so, but like there are two versions of us are innocent.
Right.
And one version of us is guilty.
So what we need to decide on is what actually happened.
Okay.
That's what I was saying.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
No, no, sorry.
I'm not trying to-
Well, I don't listen to other people.
That's not-
Susie your pants.
No, no, it's good.
But okay.
All right.
I'm glad you were saying that then.
Okay.
I'm sorry.
All right.
The details only-
The non-murder timeline.
Why?
How did the baby end up in the-
If the baby ended up in the bucket and we didn't kill it, here-
Okay.
Let's agree on what happened.
Right.
Or-
Or did the two people that didn't kill the baby leave the room, too, and only the
person that killed the baby knows the actual story-
Right.
So no one actually knows what happened.
So wait.
Is that too complicated?
No, no, that's great.
Oh, that is good.
So who killed-
Again, we're all going to leave the room at one point.
Okay, so what if- what if the coloring book was still in the car?
Wait.
We're just- these are just clues.
Doesn't the-
Aren't we supposed to leave-
Who- who- wait, I thought- did you-
These are clues.
These are-
Right.
No, no, let's say that's for instance, but that's not going to be the one that we do.
Okay.
Can you come back up and point again?
All right.
How about this?
Church.
Give Spencer-
Oh, shit.
What?
Come up and give Spencer some clues.
Wait.
Why do you give clues?
It's not-
I know.
There's going to be details.
There needs to be- there needs to be one truth for the people that didn't kill the baby,
and one- and then the other person needs to be like, making it up.
Well, let's just- let's just try it.
Let's just do alibis now.
I think we should stick with a coloring book in the car.
Okay.
If we want one more-
There's a coloring book in the car.
Yeah.
Okay, all right.
But we all know that.
All right.
Yes.
Okay.
One more is the car- where does the car park tell about?
By the river.
Great.
And so we're all going to be calling in separately for different reasons.
And we're all- two of us because we found a baby in a bucket.
Okay.
And one of us because we killed the baby and put it in a bucket.
Right.
This doesn't work.
And does everyone know- does everyone know who killed the baby?
I don't.
Well, you guys don't.
Yeah, so can you come back up and point at the person again?
Okay.
All right.
So everyone in the audience, he just pointed at Dan, Jeff, and Spencer.
All of our reason to be a subscriber to the live feed.
You will know right now who this is.
I mean, I'm not saying we're making a mistake.
I just want to get better at this.
One thing happened that made everything fall apart.
And otherwise it was going great.
I don't want to reveal what that thing was.
Hopefully you make it through your surgery and I want to retune this and like-
Hopefully I die.
I want to do nothing but have-
And then we can call 911 about me dying on the operating table.
I don't know what happened.
I found his head in a bucket.
I guess his surgery.
All right.
Okay.
So what's the- how do we- how do we go ABC through this now?
So we want another audience member to pick who should go first then.
I go first.
Someone just said Jeff.
Did you hear- okay.
Did you hear what happened?
No.
That sounds like a low idea.
He's redirecting like this son of a bitch.
Yeah.
How much did you hear back to anything at all?
Nothing.
All right.
That's perfect.
I'll tell you Ryan, not a whole lot happened down here.
A lot of confusion.
Yeah.
I was actually- no, no.
It was good.
A lot of that could have happened with you on stage,
but otherwise it was good.
All right, so the premise is three of us are- we're all going to give you a 911 call about
a murder that has happened, and then you're going to pick who of us is based on your
own- you can bring us into the questioning room.
You can do whatever you want.
Your Michael checklists of your own shield.
You can do whatever you want at here.
All right.
I go first.
911.
Hello?
That's already- I mean, I'm saying- who's dispatch?
Who's dispatch?
Oh, well, we need somebody.
You've done it.
You deserve more.
Thank you.
Can you be dispatch?
Great.
That's the part I knew.
This is going to be great for everybody.
Can you be 911 dispatch?
All right.
Generally, the job entails telling anyone that has an emergency to calm down.
I'm aware.
Just hang up on him.
All right.
Just hang up.
So I dial 911.
I'm dispatcher.
Yeah.
Now you say 911.
What did you say?
What's your emergency?
You're the answer.
Yeah.
I was waiting for a ring.
911 dispatch.
Hi.
My name is-
Sir?
Yes?
Calm down, please.
Calm down.
Promoted.
I need you to calm down, please calm down.
My name is Jake Sweetwater.
I live at 145 Mercury Lane.
Okay, sir.
I need to figure out what's going on right now.
I think I've found the remains of a small child.
It's in the Sweetwater River.
And it's not named after me.
Strangely.
Sir?
I mean, my family moved here because we thought it was funny.
So you're acting very suspicious right now.
Okay.
I still don't know about what's going on.
The remains.
Let's start with the remains.
Near my farm by the old well, there seems to be a painter's bucket, which looks like
the remains of a small child and-
Is this your child or just a child?
I don't have a child, sadly.
Well, that should have been one of the factors.
Funny you should ask.
My wife can't conceive.
But neither here nor there.
Sir, I'm just saying that we should get-
We're learning.
Whatever you guys do at 911, incorporate it.
You guys should bring down.
I'm pretty certain these are young baby remains in a painter's bucket.
Okay.
Sir, I need more details.
I gave you my address.
I told you my name.
I'm a single father.
When did you find these remains?
Just now.
No, I waited three days to tell you.
What were you doing?
I shot the bucket and my wife and I said,
Fuck, it's going to Cancun.
And then we'll come back.
Look, I'm telling you that I found what looks to be some decomposing remains of a small
child.
And the end, here's my name and address.
Sir, I need you to calm down.
I think your lack of commitment to your job is more criminal than what led to a baby.
How long dead?
I don't know who am I, the coroner?
I'm not the medical examiner here.
I'm going to figure out who I need to send.
I don't know if I need to send a fire truck.
I would send police.
I would send a medical team.
Sir.
Yes.
Calm down, please.
Okay.
Don't gender specify me.
Whoa.
That's the cops.
We'll have someone out on the way.
Thank you.
Wouldn't that be nice?
I got a baby in a bucket over here.
Where's somebody?
Sir, don't move the bucket.
Okay.
I'm not touching the bucket.
I'm just letting you know.
You don't touch the bucket with the baby.
It's an active crime scene now.
Look, hey man, I watch a lot of TV.
If you see a baby in a bucket, what am I going to do?
Touch the bucket?
No, then I'm the guy that put the baby in the bucket.
There's a lot of things you can do with the baby.
I don't know you, sir.
I think you're overstepping your fucking bailiwick right now.
You should just get the police down here.
Ma'am, drop the bucket.
I'm not a...
I'm not a ma'am.
Yeah.
You says you.
Drop the bucket.
I'm not...
I'm not holding the bucket.
Open fire.
Hello, Natalie?
Natalie?
Yes.
Can you find the main frame where everything's recorded?
And delete most of it?
Give me a few minutes.
No, I went too far.
I went too far.
Don't affect the cannon.
Okay, so that was my 9-1-1 call to dispatch.
I think next time we do this game.
All right.
It's not a good game.
You matter my hair.
Who goes second?
Dan or Spencer?
I think next time we might actually nail it.
Spencer.
I'd like to...
That's what's keeping the gun out of my mouth.
Is that we're making steps.
And all these members randomly chosen Spencer to go second at the 9-1-1 call.
Okay.
Now the question is how familiar is Spencer with my 9-1-1 call?
See, that's what we debugged is that we had to establish all common facts about the relationship
with the baby.
Okay.
Beat, boop, beat, beat, beat, boop, beat, boop, boop, boop, boop.
Sir, sir, please stop pressing buttons.
It's 300 letters.
I just pressed 9-1-1, 9-1-1.
There's only three numbers, sir.
Hi.
My name's Carl Sweetwater.
I live on the Sweetwater Farm next to the Sweetwater River.
I'm so sorry to bother you.
I have a situation.
I can't believe it.
I was just babysitting my baby niece, my four-year-old niece down by the river.
We drove down by the river.
Sir, sir, sir, I need you to calm down.
Okay.
Did you happen to have a bucket with you?
How did you know?
Let me let me do some breathing exercises.
Okay.
So we were playing with sand in the bucket.
And I went back to my car because they left their coloring book in the car.
Okay.
She did, not they.
Oh, okay.
And so when I when I came back with the coloring book, I just see the kid face down, head in
the bucket, not breathing.
I tried to resuscitate her.
It didn't work.
I was too late.
Sir, sir, let me ask you this.
Is CPR certified?
No.
And I, but you know, you just panic.
Okay.
Do you have any other relatives that you know of that may have been in under the Sweetwater
name?
Oh, yeah.
Owner of the Sweetwater brand of electronic companies.
Why is that relevant?
Can you send someone?
It's a slow day.
It's only me here.
So I've taken a lot of calls in.
Oh, I've been there.
I've got I've received a call.
You may want to check the river.
Well for what?
Oh boy, I think I got a dead kid.
I'm so.
I just I don't know.
I'm so sorry.
I can't believe I fucked up.
It was just.
It was just in a minute.
We will send someone in.
We will send someone over.
Please.
Can you ask them to not shoot me?
Sweetwater farm has a history ma'am put the bucket down this bucket in my hands to open
fire.
Oh no.
All right.
Put some coke.
I can call the chief see that's that's what you were.
When you were telling the story Jeff, I was like oh well I was going to tell a story about
being related to this kid.
You're just finding a dead kid that you never knew about.
So like that.
And for the game that would have been good to establish.
Should I have not like mentioned any sort of relation?
You're doing great.
I know.
I think where we are right now is just as confusing as most first first four hours of
any investigation.
No, it's good.
I like it.
It's not.
All right.
Now it's Danster.
So now I like this.
Dan Dan has to call 911.
All right.
Beep.
There is just silence in the background.
I'm having a hard time hearing you.
Oh Fuck.
Shit.
Hello 911.
Sir, yes.
Yeah.
Oh my god.
There's a baby in a bucket.
Oh, okay.
I found a baby in a bucket.
Okay.
Let me let me get your all the time it's happened to you tonight.
Sir, I needed to calm down.
My name is my name is Carl suite water.
I'm like I'm.
Sir, I need you to calm down.
I need you to calm down.
I know you need me to calm down, but the thing is the truth is...
Is this your baby?
God, no.
Why would I have a baby in a bucket?
Sir, or maybe ma'am, I don't know you.
Thank you.
I'm not familiar or I'm not sure what your pronoun is.
That's really cool of you.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
I actually, during college, I actually was...
I did go through a phase where I identified as non-binary.
Thank you.
I just found a baby in a bucket.
I'm a man now.
I'm a book man.
I've got to fucking cock the size of a Lincoln log and I'm like ready to rock.
Like I'm through that forest and I don't think that's necessarily...
I don't think that makes me a hero.
So sir, judging by that, that lesson, you identify as a man and this is not your child.
You're right.
No, absolutely not.
How did you find it?
Not because of...
I found it in a bucket.
I'm not going to call it that.
My car broke down.
I ran out of radiator cap and it started steaming and I hit a tree and I was like, I'm going
to breath a fresh air.
Think about where my life's gone.
I've changed my gender.
I've changed my field of expertise.
I've gone from video to audio.
I used to be a woman that was into HD and then I became a man that was into audio.
I was just finding my place so I hit this tree.
I'm on a bunch of ketamine and I'm breathing and I see this bucket and I'm like, what's
in there?
I see something gleaming.
I'm like, are those teeth?
Turns out, yeah.
I'm like, why are they so...
Sir, I'd like to let you know this entire call is being recorded.
Oh, fuck.
I'm going to prison.
It's not because I killed my baby.
It's because of my past and I'm going to make...
You're fine.
I'm not fine.
All right.
So we have our 3911 calls.
I'm not fine.
No, no.
Do we all get separately?
Oh!
Put the bucket down.
No, no cops showed up.
Now does Ryan interview us?
Also, I think the murderer might be the night moment dispatcher because the lack of effort
put into helping this baby or solving these calls every day just feels like it's just
another...
It's old hat to you, but meanwhile, there's three people that have a baby.
It's not...
Yeah, they're all under the Sweetwater name and everyone's very suspicious.
I think a major clue is that two of the Sweetwaters were named Carl.
Thank you.
Both of you were Carl Sweetwater.
We should have established the person and all been the same person.
Oh, okay.
It's fine.
We're workshopping.
We're going to get better at it, but in the meantime, do you think you know who killed
the baby?
No.
But...
Yeah.
Well, let's see.
Perfect crime.
I bet he's analyzing the psychology and it all seems like people are just making a bunch
of shit up.
Yeah.
Well, Jeff lied about where you contradicted yourself.
You said you had a child and then you said you didn't.
I did?
Yeah.
Oh.
I was in shock.
Very suspicious.
Do you see a baby in a bucket every day?
I'm just a gentleman farmer who owns a music electronics company on an eponymous river.
By the way, never get on their email list.
They will email you forever.
Yeah.
Hey, it's Dale from Sweetwater.
How's your microphone?
Motherfucker.
I love Sweetwater.
I'm sure everyone loves them.
They're great.
They're emails.
So yeah, I think the next question I want to ask is when you left the child next to
the bucket, what was the distance between the bucket and the car?
In my head, it was about 30 feet, like down the embankment or up the embankment to the
car.
Yeah.
In your head?
Oh, shit.
When I was picturing the fact situation.
Okay.
And how long do you think you were at the car?
Less than a minute, I think, I said.
Okay.
So was your back turned to the child?
No.
I was turning around to face the child to get into my car and grab the coloring book,
I'd imagine.
Oh, there was a coloring book.
You were turning around to face the child to get in the car?
Right.
I was headed towards the river.
So I turned around to enter the car door, you know, I love this.
I love seeing the process.
Does that make sense?
It's like, because the car's facing the river.
So then I walk away, I unlock the car and where's the bucket in relation to the car?
It would be face in the river, right?
So it would be forward and to my left that way, like that.
So like there, oh God, it feels like a cop is just interviewing me.
So you walked away from the child toward the car.
So essentially you were not looking at the child when you walked away.
Right.
Okay.
In my head.
What did you hear when you walked away?
Nothing.
Gurgling?
So the kid was playing in the bucket as you walked away?
Yeah, it was full of sand.
It was full of sand?
So what was she doing playing with a bucket of sand next to the river?
It sounds like something you would do at the beach unless the sand was pulled from the
riverbed.
Yeah.
It was like a sandy kind of riverbank.
In my head.
Okay.
And why were you there in the first place?
We were playing.
You two were just playing?
What?
Just having a good time, the river.
So you were there when it was a baby and a bucket?
Yeah.
Oh, okay.
Yeah, I took the knees down to play.
Oh.
Now, I would love to interrogate you, but the only thing I heard is you had a huge
cock.
I think.
Yeah, no.
Well, the size of a Lincoln Log.
A Lincoln Log's huge.
I was scared as soon as you said it.
I think.
The size of the Lincoln Log.
Lincoln Logs are huge when you're a little child.
I don't know.
The long ones are pretty long.
How big a Lincoln Log.
I think you're thinking they're a lot bigger than they are.
There's three major sizes of Lincoln Logs.
They can get pretty big.
Yeah.
I don't know.
Did they still make Lincoln Logs?
They do.
But they're plastic now.
They used to be wood.
You got a splinter up your fucking finger now.
Oh, yeah.
All right.
So who did it?
Oh, final answer.
I have to guess here.
I guess.
I don't know.
It might be the 911 operator.
He actually did say he did say it's been a slow day.
I've had a lot of calls.
So, yeah.
All because we're.
I don't know if he's actually the 911.
Establishing alibi.
Right.
He might have murdered the 911 operator.
And now he's just holding the phone.
Freak up.
Good.
Happy.
Let's see.
So.
Hmm.
Yeah.
It wasn't Gregory because he was between the suffering.
Some sort of emotional trauma from relationship in me or.
Okay.
You're looking right at your soulful eyes.
You're looking right at me.
I'm just like, oh, shit.
For the listeners.
Ryan has soulful eyes.
I didn't expect this.
About the fact that my family, but my wife and I can't conceive a child.
Yeah.
So there was there something else to that as well?
What do you mean?
She's as far as the issues.
I wonder, am I being detained right now?
Do you want to be?
Oh, I like where this is headed.
I am the MacArthur Park handjobber.
No, I mean, no.
I might as well tell everybody here.
I'm happy to cooperate with law enforcement all the way on this.
I'm just a person that's found a dead child in a bucket.
How much are you willing to cooperate?
Who the fuck?
Why are we on conference call with 911?
You never hung up.
She never hung up.
Yeah, you just got shot.
What was your question?
Yeah, my last question would be, what were you doing in that location?
I, again.
Do you live nearby?
I live nearby.
I think you said the bucket was near a well?
Yeah, it's the old well on Tweetwater River.
Okay.
Yes.
Not related.
Were you going to the well to get a bucket of water?
My wife doesn't like when I smoke in the house, so I take walks up and down the river.
And I just take a general walk, you ask any of our neighbors, they'll see me kind of patrolling that part of the river just to have my,
just kind of clear my head and have a cigarette or two.
And yes, yeah.
Do I smoke a little CBD?
Yes, I fucking do.
And if that's your thing.
All right.
It doesn't give you high.
I have sleep apnea, bro.
Yeah.
Mr. Tweetwater, right out, bro.
That's pretty rad.
Thank you, 911.
So.
And did I come across a bucket?
Yes.
Did I call 911 to alert the authorities?
Should buckets have babies in them?
No.
Yes.
Is that my fault?
Is that some shit that I should be suing for if I run across it when I'm high?
Okay, so what we're actually missing here is the identity of the baby.
And so that for the setup, that actually requires me.
It's Gus Johnson.
And where does Gus live in relation to the river?
Gus lives in Shorewood.
Where's the river?
Next town over.
Shorewood.
Yeah.
No relation to the sweetwaters?
No, no.
Random baby.
Yeah.
All the family called in, but random baby.
In the place where it's like sweetwater dense.
So he died twice.
He died once over here.
Don't we all die twice?
We all die a million tiny deaths every day.
Isn't birth just kind of death, but reverse?
His name is Gus Johnson.
He's from Shorewood.
He's a decent son.
I mean, we should, we got to get out of this so that we can, like...
You want me to discuss?
Well, if you have any last questions for Dan, but otherwise, yeah, probably.
But...
I did like the, like seeing the process right there.
But know that those questions are only going to result in bad improv.
It's not really going to, like, lead you to a new answer.
I would just need to know if there was a relationship of any kind.
No, but it was revealing to watch the way his mind works about what kind of questions he asks.
Again, I think he has a future...
I liked it.
He deserves better.
I will say that.
Right.
He deserves an actual...
Oh, I like to watch his mind work.
I wish he was on a better podcast.
Like, I wish...
Ryan, would you be happier if we actually killed somebody and had made you have to figure it out?
That would be amazing, yes.
Right.
How much of a part of, before you make your decision, like when you're leaving your corporate gig
to become a, a podcaster about true crime, are you sublimating your own kind of secret fantasies
about either being on either side of that, like it be law enforcement side or being on the criminal side?
How much of our addiction to true crime stuff is our own kind of secret sublimated fantasies about murder?
Oh, I think it plays a great part, especially in the male mind, that's for sure.
You know, yeah, I mean, I think everybody has that potential for darkness.
A lot of times you just hear about these people who suddenly snap.
I mean, obviously they're having issues prior to that.
But I mean, when you hear about someone who's living a normal everyday life and then suddenly they just go off the deep end in one moment
and just kill a bunch of people.
Yeah, it's definitely difficult to reconcile that against what we see in everyday life.
Yes, I mean, I think we talked about this before, but like, women love true crime because they all...
They're the ones that are going to get murdered.
Like, women have to worry about men killing them.
And so, like, we...
Someone said thanks a lot for that.
Thanks a lot.
I'm glad I'm here to tell you.
I was like, well, he's not...
Don't kill the messenger.
The messenger's one of many people that might kill you.
And yet the MacArthur Park hand-yabber runs free.
It would be the height of political incorrectness to say anything otherwise.
Like, now, women don't get killed anymore than men.
Is there one where you're like, what the fuck?
I've gotten A, I don't have a B, and I have a murdered body.
How the fuck...
I just don't understand how this all links together.
You know, I think with murders, it's not generally not like that too often, but definitely with disappearances.
Like, one we were talking about the other night was Brian Schaefer.
I'm sure everybody knows that case.
Well, not necessarily.
I mean, these names kind of, like, they sound like nothing.
But then, I guess you notice when you said a name before, and then you said,
the girl that texted her boyfriend until he killed himself, everyone was like, ugh.
But Brian Schaefer is the guy that went to the bar that was like the big tuna, Lutuna, Saluna, whatever.
Like, he was like a guy that got out of medical school.
He went up an escalator into a bar.
He was finishing medical school.
He was going to go on a vacation with his girlfriend.
He completely fucking disappeared from a weird strip mall bar in the middle of Columbus, Ohio.
Never seen again.
Yeah.
He never, like, there's security camera footage of him going up the escalator to this bar where,
and then he goes in and then there's security camera footage of like matching the timeline.
And then at some point, he just disappears.
It's not a murder.
It's nothing.
It just disappears.
Yeah, no altercation.
No body.
He was engaged to be married.
There was no strife.
There was nothing like his poor fiance.
I think you avoid identifying with her because you're like, I can't live in that nightmare.
The guy just vanished.
Anyways, but we were talking about that.
Like, people obsess about that because it's...
Have you done that episode?
Yeah, I did cover that one, actually.
Oh, cool.
Yeah, I mean, I think that's one of the ones or one of the very few episodes where I don't
really have a definitive answer as to what happened to him.
And it's really mysterious.
You don't see him leave the building.
You don't have a motive for why he left a different way than he came in.
There's no evidence that he died there.
Right.
I kind of think that what that one is is like, it's a rare...
We talked about this where we're like, if you can get him out of that bar without a camera
seeing him, which is the actual height of the mystery for people, that's why Reddit is obsessed
with this case, is because they love to watch security camera footage and love to look
at Google Earth footage of the...
I mean, I was doing it while I'm listening to the true crime garage.
Those guys are from Ohio, so I'm like...
And they're like talking about this place.
I'm like, on Google Earth, looking at the strip mall in 3D, going like, where did he go?
But if you think about this building tonight as like, oh, if one of you disappeared tonight
and one of you will, they're conceivably like...
It could become a famous thing.
It's like one of you disappears and it's like kind of like, if a camera picked up all of
you entering and it was like one of you disappeared, the headline of it would become...
There were cameras everywhere, we know everyone that went in and we don't know where they went.
It's like, yeah, there's a couple ways to get out of this building without a camera picking up on you.
Oh, yeah, sure.
And it is weird.
It would be weird if one of you got out of this building without a camera seeing you,
sad or uplifting you pick, but it would be weird if one of you could get out of here
without a camera knowing where you went, but if you just take a flyer on that weirdness
and then add to that the crazy kind of random horrible death of like, he was looking for Coke,
like you and I kind of over dinner decided.
Oh, definitely, yeah.
I mean, I've been that guy.
I remember being in my 20s and wandering around the Cheetah Club and going like,
hey, man, no, no, no, no, no, Coke.
And I'm like, I wake up that next morning, I'm like, I'm so lucky to be alive.
All right, I shared too much, but I'm kind of like the next murder mystery.
But I do think it's like, okay, so like, like, all right, Harmon, nail your showdown.
I want to talk, I do want to talk about actually like, let's talk about the fact that like,
the personal side of you, that sounds corny.
You wander into these spring or final thoughts, because you're dealing with sociopathic things,
you're dealing with the ghoulish thing, and then you'll, like, so why did she,
why did she stab her children to death?
I'll tell you why, redirection of light.
But you'll kind of like, just at the point where we would think you're going to leave us,
like you, you do play the role of like a nice nurturing uncle or father or something where you're like,
and here's the thing, it's okay though.
She's in prison now, and here's why she did that.
She just wanted to be famous.
And why wouldn't you want to want that if you were a sociopath and you didn't have any things,
and you'll, you'll slide into not only these like crazy kind of Bukowski prose pieces,
that I, like Spencer has, Spencer and I have agreed, like, man, you could, you could do like a highlight clip of these.
I think Cody, who got your app and was like, wait, this motherfucker's doing spoken word,
like I didn't know about that, where like, you actually do like rhyming shit,
but that's that in the cat in the hat.
And I don't think you, you, you, but the more important thing is that you, yeah, you kind of go there just when we're feeling left.
Our attraction to true crime, I think is an attraction to like, we're like, oh man, does everything die?
I don't think, I don't think we're rooting for death when we, when we're attracted to that stuff.
I think we're rooting for life when we're attracted to that stuff, and I think that you are responding to that stuff.
Talk about how you decide to end your episodes with these weird spoken word riffs or where you go.
Like you, you have this like thing about like, we're all going to be AI one day and it doesn't matter.
Should I ask a better question?
No, I mean, it's, it's a good question.
Good, you're welcome.
No, you know, I mean, I've always.
Jesus.
Would it kill you to compliment Dan once in a while?
Just say it.
How long do I have to talk before you say it's a great question?
A guy asked you an 18 minute question.
Say thank you.
I mean, you're supposed to, you're supposed to stop me six minutes through and go, what a great question.
Let me take it from here.
I'm sorry about that.
I'm also sorry about all of that.
Go ahead.
I did it.
What was the question again?
Can you talk about?
Don't make him say it again.
Yeah.
What inspires your larger takeaways?
Like your thematic things.
And you sometimes say like, because here's the thing.
I've also been in a dark place.
So I know there's a way out, you know, like, how do you connect to that?
I think for me, it was like, you know, anytime I've been in a dark place in my adult life, my writing was always the place where I went.
And, you know, podcasting is a little different for me because I have to get in front of a microphone and I'm, you know, I'm talking and editing.
And it's very strange for me.
So I've always relied on the writing and I think I've always embedded so much of my humanity in my writing.
And it's really an important thing for me to connect with other people on a human level.
You know, I know we can't all agree about everything in society, but, you know, we are all human.
And that's just something I very strongly believe in.
And because of the way my brain structured and it works, you know, I just have that evolutionary function going on that allows me to see humanity as a whole.
And to care about everybody collectively more so than individually.
Your message to those people, though, is often kind of that it's sort of simultaneously nihilistic and uplifting in that you're kind of reaching out to people that give a shit and saying to them,
there's no point in caring about any of this.
Why?
Because one day we're all going to be robots.
That's kind of your religion.
Yeah, I mean, essentially, we're all walking off a cliff right now. I mean, we're all going to die and we eventually will become an artificial intelligence.
But, you know, in the meantime, when we walk off that cliff, I just want to see people fly.
I mean, that's just what I'm about.
But it feels like your advocating part when I listen to you talking to these things, you're sort of like, you know, these meat bodies that we occupy, they're bringing out the worst and the worst people.
Definitely.
Like, I found your Columbine episode, like, your take on it was, it wasn't unique, but it was unique in, like, how you focused on, like, you're like, these kids were so already recognized for being nerds that when they started doing these horrible things to everyone,
horribly, like, the first kids that reacted to them were, whether they hated those kids and wanted to bully them or whether they were on their side, but, like, the kids' reaction, their instinctive reaction was to flock toward these kids because they assumed that they were making a movie.
Yeah, they assumed they were making a film and it's so sad.
Like, these fucking assholes, you didn't call them assholes, but you'd be okay if you did.
Basically, like, these fucking dorks, like, how could they not realize how close they were to, like, the fucking people you're shooting, their first reaction to getting shot was, what are you doing, a movie, nerd?
It's like, make a movie, nerd! Like, they could have done it and they didn't understand that they could have done it. Why didn't they understand?
Like, I like those takes out of it where you're like, you're not solving the desk, you're not coming up with a new person to blame, but you are, and I do want to say that, like, Spencer, when Cody and I started listening to you and I was sort of like, God damn it, Spencer, I really want you to know, I really want to know what Spencer thinks of you, and not to embarrass Spencer, but, you know, like, you have been an inspiration, you know, to, like,
like, there's a cult leader kind of thing to you.
He cut off his beard for you.
You give these almost sermons.
Actually, it's partially true.
And Spencer has said, like, oh, yeah, I was listening to ASPD and, like, fucking ASPD.
Yeah, well, it's like, because what Dan said is there's something nihilistic about what you say, because it's like, here's the thing, we're all going to die, but, like, that really struck home to me is, like, the past is never going to change and your demons are always going to follow you,
so, like, the quicker you come to terms with that fact, the quicker you can adapt to it and learn and grow from it.
And that was like, holy shit, I have also been tortured by my demons forever, and it's also felt like it's never going to end.
And I guess it won't.
That's very freeing to realize that and just go, okay, I better come to terms with that.
That's the water I'm living in.
I'm going to drown unless I learn to swim, so I'm going to learn to swim.
And I just think, like, you have takeaways like that that are, that are crushingly depressing, but at the same time, it's like, well, this kind of seems realistic.
So it doesn't, it's not like, it's not bullying or it's not nihilistic.
It's just like, it's just a sobering revelation about the way of things.
And I think at your best, you're doing a lot of stuff like that.
I don't know.
That doesn't really give you a place to respond.
So thank you for doing it.
Yeah, thank you.
We don't give our guests a place to respond.
I got a question.
We don't even let them talk.
It's great.
Is there anything that you said that you kind of don't stand by like that?
Because you don't want a lot of reaction.
Well, yeah, I mean, I will say there is an episode where you said like you claim someone made up a name and you said it was a three part name,
Romero T Rogers or something like that.
And I was like, what's the logic there?
Like, oh, that was probably in one of the Amityville horror episodes.
Right.
I think so.
Yeah, there was definitely logic, but I would have to go back and listen to that.
Oh, okay.
So many episodes instead.
Is there anything that you're like on second thought or you probably don't look back.
What about the episode where you were like, if America had been made great again, this murder wouldn't have happened.
I thought, I'd see that it was kind of like before the election, you were, would you like to rescind that?
Oh, man, I had a, I had a Lyft driver in the way here, boy.
He had some some Trumpy talk radio going on and he just, he just kind of just started wanting to talk about stuff.
And I was trying to make it very clear that I wasn't in a conversational mood with this guy.
He's, yeah, I just like listening to talk radio.
This is not the fake news.
This is real news.
I'm like, okay.
All right, cool.
Hey, where are you going?
I'm going to this place.
Oh, yeah.
There's a place near there.
They got those cute waitresses.
They're going to get you something.
Mr. Ram.
I don't want an old guy bringing me.
Hey, let's shut the fuck up.
Civil war.
We're all going to die.
All right.
But in the meantime.
Is there anything you want to correct or do you just, do you just like let him fly and keep going to the next one?
No, I mean, I think there were some early episodes that I did.
Maybe I wanted to keep the first 10 episodes I did somewhat normal and then just get crazier as it went along.
And I've definitely done that.
You know, I've lost some fans in the process and gained a lot more.
So it's a really interesting thing.
What if you run out of murders?
Have you been conscious?
We'll just create more.
Do you do?
How do you be honest?
How do you keep an eye on that?
When you say you lost some fans, like, are you, what numbers are you looking at?
And don't, and please be honest because like, like, like, like, what are you, what did you look at when you got like, I lost some fans.
Oh, no, I don't mean in terms of, you know, like mass quantity or anything.
But there are people who have listened to my show have contacted me and said, you know, now that you're talking more about artificial intelligence or talking about the brain.
Are you talking about the future?
It's kind of turning me off.
But then at the same time, there are a lot more people who are saying, Hey, I really interested in this.
So how do you parse that?
Are you going by the guiding light of the more people that praise me the better?
Or are you?
No, it's just always authenticity.
I do exactly what I think will be most authentic to me.
And I think that people will connect with that the most.
I'm gonna be polarizing no matter what.
I miss when you used to play D&D on the show.
I thought that was really good.
I actually hated those segments.
I'm glad they're over.
That's what I find inspiring about you is because it reminds me of a day when I was able to understand that.
Like when you say stuff, you go like, by the way, and I know what I'm about to say is going to make half of you hate me.
But here's why you're going to hate me because you're stupid.
And I mean, you know, you don't say that specifically, but it's kind of like, it hits that chord for me.
And I'm like, yeah, motherfucker, sex pistols, fuck the Beatles.
Like, stop trying to, people, please, harm it. It fucking ruined you.
Um, anyways.
Has there been one that made you like, or not even one, but has like doing this over a period of time made you like kind of change things in your life?
Or like, I got to look over my shoulder a little bit more, watch out for this person.
Um, you know, there are, there are occasionally times I get contacted by a family member of a victim or something like that.
And it could be a very positive interaction or it could be negative.
You know, it just depends.
Have there been, so, so talk, we'll talk about a positive one where somebody's like, hey, I'm related to so and so.
Thank you so much for doing the piece on that true crime thing.
Because I imagine that's how it starts is the cheese and the trap.
Yeah, I mean, I think for me, I don't get contacted as much as perhaps other people do about that because of the nature of my show.
I, you know, I think there are things that people like.
Maybe the victims families will like that I say, and then there are other things that will be a little offensive.
I tend to come off a little bit insensitive sometimes because I'm just, you know, going off on a rant.
I think all the time, yeah.
Yeah, pretty much.
I would like rely on you to be insensitive would be the reason why I would come to you.
I feel like, well, he's going to be insensitive.
Yeah, but I think, you know, the thing about me is that I mean sensitive in pursuit of the truth.
Yeah, and that part of the truth is that you love humanity.
Yeah.
And so that just feeds right into that authenticity.
And so I'm not afraid to be like that.
It's just, I think that I should just put myself out there and.
And so you decided, even though you're a fan of true crime, so you knew there was a sea of people out there that were like, well, there's people out there who interview victims and things like that.
And you're like, do you pick the path?
You're like, well, I know myself.
I should probably just brush this plaque, like go forward through this path.
It's not going to do me any good or anybody any good for me to be the sensitive to the victims, survivors, accused, whatever.
Like, did you have that thought process?
You know, I did, but I think it's just so natural for me to be authentic in what I'm saying.
Like listening to a lot of other true crime shows, I mean, you know, they do a great job of factually presenting the case.
And then sometimes when it comes to a point where you need to give opinions, they back off.
And then sometimes that's where they end the show.
And so I always want to do something different, but like I said, authentic to myself.
So I think that's the direction I went.
Do you want to just talk about your, I feel like your podcast has kind of a grand, unifying theory about like how evolution is building towards this humanity endgame.
Do you want to maybe, so is that too quick to summarize?
But I think that's like really interesting.
And that kind of drives a lot of like where your tangents go and like what evolution means to us on a societal level or I don't know.
Yeah, so I mean, so I see life in two separate contexts.
One would be social and the other one is evolutionary.
And so the social context is where, you know, we live together every day and we create new technology by arguing back and forth and pushing forward.
Like for instance, in politics, you have Republicans and Democrats, you need that conflict in the absence of conflict, you're not going to get changed.
And so the way evolution generally works is that it creates society as a manipulation of its needs.
And so what it needs us to do is grow up as humans and move out of the house, so to speak.
And so the way we're going to surpass evolution or transcend evolution essentially is that we will just continue to create technology until we have replaced, we've replaced the human brain.
And once we've replaced the human brain, the entire operating system, the body, then we no longer have a connection to nature.
And without a connection to nature, we'll have a data-based operating system.
And by doing that, we actually have autonomy that we never did before.
Without the connection to nature, we don't reproduce, we replicate.
And so evolution...
Which might merger won't be necessary.
Yeah, and so, yeah, exact.
So the stage I call, when we transcend evolution, I call that stage metamorphosis, where we will actually just be able to change at a very quick pace at any time, do whatever we want essentially.
It will be the greatest period of autonomy the world has ever known.
I feel like you can't wait for it.
I listened to the podcast.
Yeah, I'm so excited.
I guess that's part of why when I met you, I expected you to weigh 400 pounds more than you did.
And I know that's going to offend a lot of people, maybe even you.
But it was because I really did picture you as a guy who was like a ticking fucking guy.
I was like, one day we're going to be robots.
And I was like, God damn, this guy can't wait for us to be robots.
I wonder why.
And I was like, I expected to see the reason when I walked into the restaurant.
I didn't expect you to look like a guy that could beat me up, because that guy should be like, one day we'll be robots, but fuck you until then, fuck you.
I can bench 300.
You definitely can't wait.
You want us to be AI.
That's the rapture to you, right?
Oh, absolutely.
Yeah, it's going to be a much better future.
Do you think how do you want to make a call?
Like seven years, 17 years?
Oh, no, it's going to be quite a long time for sure.
I mean, the technology.
Your lifetime?
No, I mean, I think.
We're talking way down the line.
Generally, the way that's going to work.
Like I said, society is the manipulation of evolution.
So basically, society will only have an acceptance of becoming artificial intelligence as we move closer to actually having the technology to do it.
Right now, we're still making movies that are 3,000 years in the future where there are human beings in deep space and it's absolutely ridiculous.
You made an amazing answer.
You made the observation like, right now, we have a president who is saying in response to planes going down, there should be less planes and there should be more coal power.
And like, you kind of looked at it like, again, not to put words in your mouth, but corrective or wrong, you're sort of like, it's like, we evolve at a certain rate and we sort of have this built-in stop mechanism where it's like, if there's so many of us that are so shitty at evolving,
then we're going to like, there's going to be this rubber break and evolution.
We're going to go, it's like, which is kind of comforting because it's like, oh, yeah, there's never going to be this judgment day, Terminator style, where it's like, oh, the robots are here.
They're shooting you.
No, they'll take us over long before that.
Well, we're going to become them.
And until we're ready to become them, which includes your mom on Facebook and everybody, like, well, until everyone's ready, it's not going to move forward that fast.
And that's the squeaking sound of the elevator going like, you're trying to get to floor three.
But then again, there's breaks because, hey, we don't want.
And so that's all it is in the grander scheme.
We're just going to become robots.
Who the fuck cares?
Yeah, I mean, you're seeing the most primitive technology right now, as far as that goes, like the internet is the first collective human intellect.
And it's just really interesting because we're building something that's going to be database.
But at the same time right now, we don't have that technology in our bodies.
And so we're running the internet on emotion.
And you go on the internet and you can see everybody is enraged.
It's just absolutely ridiculous.
I guess the thing that I don't understand about you that would make you then a genius been that you don't think the way I understand some should think is that you see that bigger picture.
Most people that see the bigger picture, you should be writing novels about Uranus merged with Neptune and all that stuff.
You shouldn't have a true crime podcast.
You're like, we're all going to become robots.
Every one of your episodes is like, so that's the JonBenét Ramsey murder.
But here's the thing, they shouldn't feel ashamed of themselves because one day we're all going to be robots.
And it doesn't really equate.
It's like pick a lane and that's what I like about it.
It's great. It's like the only true crime podcast that's like therapeutic and also like super futurism and also like you're literally solving cold cases, which is like no podcast does any of those.
But the solution to every cold case ever is take it easy.
We're all going to be robots.
Sometimes it's just realize you're going to die.
Do you have a comment on that? Then I'd be a good interviewer.
If you don't, then I'm a bad interviewer.
Right.
Just the idea that you bridge those two worlds.
Yeah, I mean, I think I've always been like that as a writer.
I've always tried to incorporate a lot of different elements to my detriment a lot of times in commercial pursuits.
But in terms of artistic viability, just creating something that means something to people.
I never really think about like you're saying staying in one lane.
Something I say all the time is I go off the rails sometimes when I'm writing and I could just switch subjects and just start talking about something entirely different.
And I don't know. It just seems like people appreciate it.
Well, the answer doesn't satisfy me at all.
Yeah.
True crime is a really specific genre.
You have to be so into it to do these episodes.
Yeah, well, I think the correlation between the future and true crime for me and why I love it so much is that all of these cases that we're looking at, it's all leading to advanced technology related to detection.
And so, I mean, if you look at the difference in technology today as opposed to 100 years ago, just in the context of law enforcement, it's just phenomenal.
I mean, the changes have been unbelievable. So with the continuation of that over the years, we will continually create more technology related to detection.
Alright, Ryan, which one of us killed the baby in the bucket?
Without more information about the victim, I would have to say that it was probably you.
Not only did I do it, but I said I did it earlier.
Cliff Hanger!
Thank you, everybody, for coming to Harmontown.
Thank you, Gregory.
Thank you.
The 9-1-1 hostess was the mostest.
Thank you, Greg.
Let's give it up for our guest, Ryan Kraus, everybody.
Cold Case Murder Mysteries.
From the PsychoCast and the Sociocast.
Spencer Crittenden.
I'm Jeff Davis, your comptroller.
Your mayor, of course, is Dan Harmon.
Thank you all for coming down. Drive fast and take chances.
Let's all fly up those cliffs, we're all gonna die!
Did you get any of that?
It's a good show!